# BEHAVIOURIAL QUESTIONS (INTERVIEWER)
* Tell me about yourself and what you've been up to?
* What projects have you worked on recently?
* What are you looking for in your next role?
* How did you get into coding/software engineering?
* What is your work experience with coding so far?
* What is your experience with Agile methodologies?
* What languages do you most enjoy working with?
* What do you do to develop your coding skills?
* What are your favorite types of projects to work on?
* Tell me about the software engineering project you’re most proud of...What did you do particularly well?
* Tell me about the software development project you’re least proud of...What would you do differently?
* What do you know about our company?
* What projects at our company you are excited about?
* Why do you want to work for us?

# INTERVIEW PROCESS QUESTIONS (INTERVIEWEE)
* How many steps in the interviewing process?
* How big is your engineering team?
* What is the team culture like?
* Who are your top competitors?
* What projects will I be working on?

# WORK ENVIRONMENT QUESTIONS (INTERVIEWEE)
> Trying asking these questions in your next interview. Interviews are two-sided. Make sure you show up prepared to get the answers you need about the things you care about most. -- [Key:Values: Culture Queries](https://www.keyvalues.com/culture-queries)

* What does a typical day look like for this role?
* What is the greatest challenge for this particular role?
* What are your expectations for this role in the first 90 days?
* What can you tell me about the team or group that I would be working with?
* How has the company changed in the past year? What are the strategic priorities?
* Are there any special initiatives or side projects the team is working on right now?

* What types of communities does ACME Corp] belong to?
> ”And how might I be able to participate in building up or contributing to those communities?” You want to ask how involved this company is with its greater community, whether that means attending and speaking at Ruby conferences, hosting hackathons, or regularly volunteering at the local food bank. By following up with a question about how you can help demonstrates that you’re a team player and that you’re interested in being a part of the team beyond the day-to-day-work. This question will shed light on: __Engages with Community__

* Does your team host or attend hackathons, conferences, and local meetups?
> This may open up the door to bond with your interviewer in a different way. It can also organically lead to your asking to chat more with other team members who you wouldn’t have otherwise met during the interview process. Lastly, it signals how highly the team values individual development. As a full-time employee, it can be hard to build yourself up as an individual (ie. your code usually stays with the company when you leave). By joining a company that encourages its employees to network, speak at conferences, and meet others in the field/community, you’ll be able to build up your own brand/presence, while promoting your company. This question will shed light on: __Engages with Community__; __Committed to Personal Growth__

* What checks and balances are in place to make sure people don't make big mistakes or repeat mistakes?
> There’s nothing wrong with making mistakes, but it is a huge problem when the same mistakes are being made repeatedly. Teams that explicitly dedicate time to discussing and documenting lessons learned are not only more efficient, but also foster a sense of psychological safety for employees to work without fear of making repeated errors. How well does this team work together to improve processes and infrastructure? How well do they collaborate? Does everyone come together to set each other up for success? This question will shed light on: __Continuous Feedback__; __Fosters Psychological Safety__; __~Risk-Taking > Stability__

* How does management deliver negative feedback to employees?
> You’re really first asking if the leaders and managers are open and transparent with their team, and then finding out how thoughtfully information is communicated. Have you ever gotten major news about your company through the press? It’s not a great feeling. How much trust is there between layers of management? Does management withhold negative feedback from their employees, or does sharing negative feedback create opportunities for the team to come together to overcome bumps in the road? This question will shed light on: __Continuous Feedback__; __Open Communication__; __EQ > IQ__

* Does HR get input for policies or people programs?
> The answer should sound something like, “Absolutely! All the time!” Better yet, your interviewer will volunteer anecdotes of this happening. Even companies with a large HR team or a dedicated Diversity & Inclusion lead, true inclusivity means that all members of the company are open and welcome to speaking up. You should absolutely follow up by asking about what policies and initiatives are in effect, and find a way to speak with the people who are most passionate about D&I at the company, even if you won’t be directly working with them. This question will shed light on: __Actively Practices Inclusion__; __Continuous Feedback__; __Fosters Psychological Safety__

* Which of your current engineers stand out as worth emulating? Why?
> You’ll get information about two things here. First, what kind of metrics and standards will you be measured for? A team’s culture is rarely the words that are written on the wall, but rather the behaviors that are applauded and celebrated. Second, this is the chance for your interviewer to brag about the stellar team you’ll be joining. How well does s/he commend other team members? Does your interviewer talk about his/her team members with respect and admiration? This question will shed light on: __Impressive Team Members__

* Who within the company do you find is the most inspiring, and why?
> You want to learn more about who works here and what type of qualities are well respected at the company. Additionally, you want to invite your interviewer to brag about current team members. If they can’t decide on just one person, that’s probably a good sign. If they’re naming individuals from across the company, both in level and department, that’s also a good sign. You might even learn about individual board members or investors who are particularly notable and relevant in this industry. This question will shed light on: __Impressive Team Members__; __~Cross-Department Collaboration__

* What do you think is the most fun or creative part of being an engineer here?
> This is a fun question to both ask and answer. People like sharing their personal experiences and recounting fond memories, and as an open-ended question, answers will be genuine and unrehearsed. More importantly, you’ll get a sense of what makes working at this company so attractive and what types of people it attracts! Is it the technology? The product? The people? The funding? The perks? I’m sure those all sound good, but be critical in choosing who you want your tribe to be. This question will shed light on: __Creative + Innovative__

* How do individual employees contribute to the creativity and innovation at ACME Corp?
> You should not only ask about what some of the big ideas are driving the company forward, but also how individuals contribute to them. Many companies have internal hackathons, which are cross-functional and involve participation from all departments. Others have regular brainstorming sessions to encourage employees to contribute ideas and work with people they wouldn’t normally work with. However they do it, find out how well the company inspires creativity from its employees and whether there are any examples of ideas being seen through to fruition. This question will shed light on: __Actively Practices Inclusion__; __Creative + Innovative__; __~Cross-Department Collaboration__

* Where does most of the innovation happen at ACME Corp?
> From a bird’s eye view, where is the company taking the most risks? It gives you an idea of (a) how clued in employees are to the overarching vision and direction of the company, and (b) if engineers are helping to steer the ship or if they’re just executing ideas coming from elsewhere. It’s also a great way to learn more about how your interviewer sees the company from a bird’s eye view. How are they differentiating themselves from competitors? What role does innovation play in the competitive landscape? This question will shed light on: __Creative + Innovative__

* Will I be working with anyone who is remote, or who works from home on a regular basis?
> You want to know if you can work from home from time to time, but you don’t have to ask directly. Instead, find out what the expectations are by asking about current team members. Not only will it answer the underlying question (ie. if most people work from home 2 days a week, you’ll be able to do the same), but you’ll also learn more about the individuals you’ll be working with. It’s not uncommon for interviewers to offer up information about how Jess moved to a different city last year and is now fully remote, or how Matthew has shifted his schedule to accommodate dropoff and pickup times for his two young children. Now you know so much more about the actual culture of the team, whether it’s a good place to work for parents, and/or who you’ll be working with. This question will shed light on: __Flexible Work Arrangements__; __Ideal for Parents__

* Are there times of the month, quarter, or year when the team is most busy?
> You want to know if schedules change at different times of the year, and if there are “crunch times,” how often they occur. For example, companies in travel and retail ramp up for the holidays, education technology companies follow the academic calendar, and companies in the payday loan space often follow a first-of-the-month cadence. Whatever it is, you should know what to expect in terms of pace of work, how it varies throughout the year, and whether the team tries to maintain a steady pace or just “rides the wave.” You can then ask about what the expectations are given these peak times. Will you be able to work remotely during Christmas time even though it’s the biggest time of the year for the company? This question will shed light on: __Flexible Work Arrangements__; __Work/Life Balance__

* Do certain projects require more face-to-face time than others?
> “What is the general working dynamic here?” This is an A+ question because it’s an invitation for your interviewer to talk about multiple topics that you care about. Maybe the team is really flexible about when and where people work. Maybe some people start their day at 8am and others come into the office right before lunch. Maybe everyone is expected to attend a stand-up meeting in person every morning at 10am. Perhaps the company is big on pairing, and the majority of people pair virtually. Finally, it’s possible that working practices vary from project to project, and the team is like a chameleon, adapting to the schedules of their clients or the other teams they collaborate with at the company. It’s one question that can yield so many answers. This question will shed light on: __Flexible Work Arrangements__; __Pair Programs__; __~Cross-Department Collaboration__; __Work/Life Balance__

* How does the engineering culture differ from the overall company culture?
> This is a clever way of asking about the company's overall culture as well as the culture of the teams you'll be joining. Your interviewer's answer will tell you how segregated the engineering department is from the rest of the company, and what role engineers play within the company. This question will shed light on: __~Cross-Department Collaboration__; __~Engineering-Driven__

* What is your process for writing post-mortems, and are they shared publicly?
> Engineering teams that have a ritual of writing thoughtful post-mortems tend to have cultures that prioritize transparency, clarity, and learning. Writing post-mortems that include background to the issue, root cause analysis, how it was resolved, who was involved in fixing the problem, and what actions need to be put in place to prevent similar issues from happening in the future demonstrate the overarching values of the engineering team. How much attention is there on writing blameless post-mortems? Sharing post-mortems publicly shows that the team is not only open and transparent within the company, but also externally. Depending on the company’s product/service, this may also inform you on how customer-focused they are. This question will shed light on: __Customer Comes First__; __Safe Environment to Fail__

* How does product management work?
> Follow up/clarifying questions include: How do you decide what products people work on? How much say do engineers have over what is built and how it's built? It’s important to understand what role engineers play at the company before joining, and whether you’ll be involved in ideation and conception, or just be delegated work. Especially the more senior you are, you’ll want to know who has decision-making power. This question will shed light on: __~Engineering-Driven__

* What tooling do you use for version control?
> Good teams use good tooling. If you’re avoiding joining a team that is using outdated tools, it’s smart to start by asking about what revision control system they’re using. (How much does this team prioritize efficiency?) You can direct the conversation into questions about workflows from here too, or go out to ask about other daily routines and practices. Do they use branches? Do they prefer to rebase or merge? This question will shed light on: __~Engineering-Driven__; __Uses Agile Methodologies__; __~Cutting-Edge Technologies__; __Continuous Delivery__

* Who sets deadlines and what happens when people fail to meet them?
> You’re looking for red flags without being accusatory. Ideally, you’ll ask multiple people this same question and find out how consistent the answers are. If a manager says one thing, but two other developers say another, they’re lacking cohesion. You’re also trying to find out how realistic deadlines are. Are teams working through the weekends in order to meet deadlines? You want to know how cut-throat and fast-paced things are here, and whether their processes are supportive or oppressive to engineers. This question will shed light on: __~Engineering-Driven__; __Safe Environment to Fail__; __~Fast-Paced Environment__; __Heavily Team Oriented__

* How do you prevent meetings from overwhelming an engineer’s schedule?
> You can learn a lot about a company based on how many meetings engineers are required to attend. For those of you who need to have long uninterrupted blocks of time to in order to be productive, it’s important to find out how many meetings you’ll be expected to go to. Typically, engineering-driven companies are careful to protect the “maker’s schedule.” At the other extreme, if there are virtually no regularly scheduled meetings, you should ask how engineers stay up to date with the rest of the team, and in the loop about non-engineering initiatives at the company. This question will shed light on: __Light Meetings__; __~Engineering-Driven__

* Are engineering meetings called to disperse information or develop solutions?
> This question is designed to be open-ended. Your interviewer will likely answer by saying that it’s both, and go on to describe their meeting culture. You want to pick up on how many regularly scheduled meetings there are, who attends, if there’s an agenda, and whether they’re optional. Many engineers prefer a culture of meetings that are scheduled ad hoc, rather than committing hours in their calendars weeks ahead. This question will shed light on: __Light Meetings__

* What do you think contributes most to your team's camaraderie?
> Most people won't admit that their team members aren't close with one another, or that they lack teamwork. By asking about how the team bonds, you'll get a clearer idea of how friendly, supportive, and cohesive everyone is. Some teams attend conferences together, while others were friends before joining the company. Or perhaps you'll learn about self-organized social activities, or the late nights of working that bring everyone together. This question will shed light on: __Friends Outside of Work__; __Heavily Team Oriented__

* What projects or activities occur cross functionally at ACME Corp?
> You might find that teams are really segregated from one another, both inside and outside of the office. Or perhaps engineering and sales don’t collaborate closely with one another on projects, but they’re still close because of company-wide events. How well does the company create opportunities for people spontaneously collaboration with one another? You can also pick up on how inclusive the company is: are all employees involved in hackathons? Does everyone do diversity training together? This question will shed light on: __Actively Practices Inclusion__; __Friends Outside of Work__; __~Cross-Department Collaboration__

* How often are engineers expected to provide status updates on a project?
> ”And how are updates generally shared across the company?” This is a way to find out about three things: (1) what the expectation is for you to check in and provide progress reports, (2) how people at this company communicate with one another, and (3) how often there are opportunities to give and get feedback. You may uncover something you’re not personally a fan of. For instance, some companies have long all hands meetings every week where each employee provides an update to the entire company. If this sounds like a chore to you, it’s good you found out early on. This question will shed light on: __~Cross-Department Collaboration__; __Open Communication__; __~Start-to-Finish Ownership__

* Who might I be working closely with outside of engineering? Is there anyone else you think I should meet with?
> You want to know who you’ll be working with, how much collaboration there is between engineering and design, product, marketing, sales, etc. This also gives you a great opportunity to ask if you can speak with some of the other people you might be working with that weren’t included in your interview schedule. Now you can get more perspectives about what it’s really like to work here, and from people you’ll speak more casually with. This question will shed light on: __~Cross-Department Collaboration__

* What kinds of processes are in place to help people work collaboratively?
> You really want to know how collaborative people really are here, but no one will admit that they aren’t. Instead, ask about the processes that foster collaboration. High-performing, high-functioning teams typically use multiple collaboration tools (multiple chat services, multiple code review services) and each developer on the team is able in the loop about what other developers are working on. You’re not too concerned about the details, but are hoping to see that there is a general awareness and evidence that engineers are also collaborating with people in other departments. This question will shed light on: __~Cross-Department Collaboration__; __Heavily Team Oriented__

* What projects or activities occur cross functionally at ACME Corp?
> You might find that teams are really segregated from one another, both inside and outside of the office. Or perhaps engineering and sales don’t collaborate closely with one another on projects, but they’re still close because of company-wide events. How well does the company create opportunities for people spontaneously collaboration with one another? You can also pick up on how inclusive the company is: are all employees involved in hackathons? Does everyone do diversity training together? This question will shed light on: __Actively Practices Inclusion__; __Friends Outside of Work__; __~Cross-Department Collaboration__

* How responsive are people to emails/Slack over the weekends and after 6pm?
> Don't ask: Is there work/life balance here? Not only will some interviewers interpret this as an unwillingness to work hard, but a yes or no question that is so direct will almost certainly get you a canned response. You can now get an idea of what the expected working hours are, and how team members communicate with one another. This question will shed light on: __Open Communication__; __Work/Life Balance__

* Technical capabilities aside, what soft skills would make someone successful in this role?
> By asking this question, you’re communicating that you understand that success depends on more than pure technical skill and cognitive abilities. You are also testing your interviewer (who may be your future manager or peer) about their emotional intelligence. Knowing your own strengths, weaknesses, preferences, and being able to manage your emotions and the emotions of others is what make someone the best team member. Your interviewer may answer with “working under pressure” or “handling ambiguity,” which helps you glean information about the engineering culture. This question will shed light on: __EQ > IQ__

* Can you tell me about a time that the team has reorged?
> Follow up with: ”What motivated the reorg and what were the changes?” Stories about previous reorgs let you know how the overall business is doing and where it’s going. Companies decide to restructure for a number of reasons: communication breakdowns, a shifting customer base, growing or shrinking headcount, span of manager control, or simply to try and fix something that just isn’t working. You want to know what issues there were, how they were measured, and how well they considered the individuals involved when making these changes. This question will shed light on: __~Data-Driven__; __Fosters Psychological Safety__; __EQ > IQ__

* Has there been a time where the engineering team was on the wrong course?
> You can follow up with: ”How did you know? What did you do? What, if anything, did the team learn from the experience?” The goal is to uncover how well people recognize problems, how comfortably and quickly they address them, and whether their teammates’ feelings are considered when making necessary corrections. How much emotional maturity is there when it comes to talking about failures? Are they defensive? Do they seem oblivious to problems on their team even if it doesn’t directly impact them? Lastly, it can raise major red flags if business decisions were made without considering data or metrics. This question will shed light on: __EQ > IQ__; __Heavily Team Oriented__

* Can you tell me about the organizational structure at ACME Corp?
> Follow up questions might include: “Where does this role fit in? How are teams made? How often do teams change? And who reports to who?” You’ll likely find out if the reporting structure is chaotic, if you’re filling the role of someone who recently left or was fired, and get an idea of how many management layers there are. For those looking for a more flat structure, this is the question to ask. It’s an easy way to lead into more direct questions about specific concerns you might (ie. retention, opportunities for promotion, relative importance of the team you’ll be joining). This question will shed light on: __Internal Mobility__; __Flat Organization__

* What were some of the biggest changes on the engineering team in the last 6 months?
> This is a great way to find out how quickly things happen on this team. You'll find out whether the engineering team is flexible in adopting new technologies, new processes, and what type of risks they're willing to take. You might also find out if team has recently undergone major changes in headcount. This question will shed light on: __~Fast-Paced Environment__; __~Risk-Taking > Stability__

* How does this team plan projects and create deadline estimates?
> The real question you want to ask is: What happens when your team costs incorrectly? Instead of asking this right off the bat though, let your interviewer first paint a picture of how deadlines are even decided upon. Does the team tend to set ambitious goals and then rally together to meet them, or do they err on the side of overestimating delivery? People complain about both extremes. On one hand, it can feel frantic and stressful to be constantly delivering on aggressive deadlines, but on the other side, it can be frustrating to work on a team that doesn’t seem to be pushing themselves to move projects forward. Decide what’s right for you at this time in your life, and find a team that wants to move at the same pace as you. This question will shed light on: __Work/Life Balance__; __~Fast-Paced Environment__; __~Risk-Taking > Stability__

* What project will I first work on, and what metrics will determine success?
> Everyone should ask about what they’ll actually be working on once they join. Of course, it should be something that is exciting, interesting, and challenging to you, but you should also find out if there are clear metrics to assess your performance. If your interviewer is avoiding the second half of the question, you can ask specifically whether you’ll be responsible for improving response times (or latency), monetization, or retention rate. Not only will you have a better idea of what you’ll be doing and why, but it will also tell you how data-driven this company is. This question will shed light on: __~Data-Driven__; __Wears Many Hats__

* What accomplishment are you most proud of since joining the company?
> Whether your interviewer is proud about shipping a major feature, getting promoted into a managerial role, or leading diversity and inclusion initiatives at the company, you’ll get a chance to learn about how the company supports its employees to grow. Answers to this question may also showcase how team-oriented the company is. You can imagine someone saying, “I’m so proud of how our entire team decided to devote a full week to our technical debt…” Finally, take note of how excited your interviewer is when answering. The “twinkle in the eye” can say a lot about how passionate and excited people are at this company. This question will shed light on: __Committed to Personal Growth__; __Heavily Team Oriented__

* What is the on-call schedule like here?
> While this might sound like a simple question, it reveals a lot about a company’s maturity, and how thoughtfully they consider and protect work/life balance. You might learn that their application goes down in the middle night rather frequently, which you should certainly ask more questions about. Hopefully, they’ll tell you about an on-call schedule that they’ve designed to be both fair and efficient, and then volunteer information about how long rotations are, if there are established priority levels of incidents, and whether this is a clear alerting process that identifies what went wrong. This question will shed light on: __High Quality Code Base__; __Work/Life Balance__

* What's the typical day, week, and weekend like in the life of an engineer here?
> No matter how the interviewer answers, you should be able to gauge what the expectations are around what time you show up, what time you leave, whether you’re able to work from home, and whether working weekends is common. It’s a question that you can ask multiple interviewers and see how much variance there is between different members of the team, and whether the perception managers have is in line with the reality of their team members. This question will shed light on: __Work/Life Balance__

* Are there times of the month, quarter, or year when the team is most busy?
> You want to know if schedules change at different times of the year, and if there are “crunch times,” how often they occur. For example, companies in travel and retail ramp up for the holidays, education technology companies follow the academic calendar, and companies in the payday loan space often follow a first-of-the-month cadence. Whatever it is, you should know what to expect in terms of pace of work, how it varies throughout the year, and whether the team tries to maintain a steady pace or just “rides the wave.” You can then ask about what the expectations are given these peak times. Will you be able to work remotely during Christmas time even though it’s the biggest time of the year for the company? This question will shed light on: __Flexible Work Arrangements__; __Work/Life Balance__

* How does this team plan projects and create deadline estimates?
> The real question you want to ask is: What happens when your team costs incorrectly? Instead of asking this right off the bat though, let your interviewer first paint a picture of how deadlines are even decided upon. Does the team tend to set ambitious goals and then rally together to meet them, or do they err on the side of overestimating delivery? People complain about both extremes. On one hand, it can feel frantic and stressful to be constantly delivering on aggressive deadlines, but on the other side, it can be frustrating to work on a team that doesn’t seem to be pushing themselves to move projects forward. Decide what’s right for you at this time in your life, and find a team that wants to move at the same pace as you. This question will shed light on: __Work/Life Balance__; __~Fast-Paced Environment__; __~Risk-Taking > Stability__

* Does your team host or attend hackathons, conferences, and local meetups?
> This may open up the door to bond with your interviewer in a different way. It can also organically lead to your asking to chat more with other team members who you wouldn’t have otherwise met during the interview process. Lastly, it signals how highly the team values individual development. As a full-time employee, it can be hard to build yourself up as an individual (ie. your code usually stays with the company when you leave). By joining a company that encourages its employees to network, speak at conferences, and meet others in the field/community, you’ll be able to build up your own brand/presence, while promoting your company. This question will shed light on: __Engages with Community__; __Committed to Personal Growth__

* What skills, whether technical or soft, have you developed or improved upon as a result of working here over the past year?
> Asking your interviewer more personal questions is a great way to gauge how genuinely excited s/he is about working here. You’ll be able to tell, by how enthusiastically they answer this question. Plus, it’s a good way to build rapport with your interviewer by asking more personal questions. Their answers will tell you a lot about whether there’s structured mentorship, outstanding management or leadership, or if the company provides the resources for individuals to take on their own learning. You can also follow up by asking, “How did you do that?” This question will shed light on: __Committed to Personal Growth__

* What is the company’s policy on parental leave?
> While you can certainly wait to ask HR this question, it is helpful to see how other engineers answer it. The conversation way segue into stories about company events being family friendly, or how accommodating the company is for parents who need to drop off and pick up their kids. In the best case scenario, you’ll find out that other people have children (or are expecting) too, and leave your interview on a positive and personal note. This question will shed light on: __Ideal for Parents__

* Can you give me an example of a mistake you've made here, and how it was handled?
> Ideally, your interviewer will answer honestly. If people are comfortable discussing big failures, it suggests that the company has created a safe environment for people to fail, and signals that it’s an environment conducive to taking risks and experimenting. On the other hand, if people are guarded when it comes to discussing failures, they might be working in a culture of blame. You can follow up by asking about their practices around investigating issues, writing post-mortems, and overall documentation. This question will shed light on: __Safe Environment to Fail__; __Fosters Psychological Safety__

* What is your process for writing post-mortems, and are they shared publicly?
> Engineering teams that have a ritual of writing thoughtful post-mortems tend to have cultures that prioritize transparency, clarity, and learning. Writing post-mortems that include background to the issue, root cause analysis, how it was resolved, who was involved in fixing the problem, and what actions need to be put in place to prevent similar issues from happening in the future demonstrate the overarching values of the engineering team. How much attention is there on writing blameless post-mortems? Sharing post-mortems publicly shows that the team is not only open and transparent within the company, but also externally. Depending on the company’s product/service, this may also inform you on how customer-focused they are. This question will shed light on: __Customer Comes First__; __Safe Environment to Fail__

* What is your build process like?
> If there's a new merge, how does it get deployed to users? Here’s your chance to dive into many topics of interest. You can find out whether they have continuous integration and continuous delivery, how long builds take, and what kind of collaboration tools the team uses. You’ll also get an idea for how highly the team prioritizes automation. If your interviewer isn’t able to say much on this topic, or if s/he is incredibly frustrated with the current process, steer the conversation to uncover why that is. This question will shed light on: __High Quality Code Base__

* Can you describe what code reviews are like, and how you ensure common coding styles?
> Everyone wants to know about the codebase they’ll be working on and what state it’s in. Unfortunately, it’s not a simple, “Is your code well-written?” type of question. People have varying definitions for and standards of what high quality code looks like, so you should instead find out how they make decisions to merge and deploy code. By asking about their code review process, you’ll uncover how often people merge their own PRs, whether there is a coding standards document, and how closely they adhere to their own best practices. This question will shed light on: __High Quality Code Base__

* Can you walk me through your development process, from a ticket or task to code on production?
> You want to know how does stuff get done here. There isn’t a right or wrong answer, but you need to find out if they share your development philosophy. If you lean towards velocity and prefer working independently, than needing five code reviews and approval from the business team might not work for you. Or maybe clear processes and structure suit you. Whatever your working style is, don’t assume that this company operates like your last one. This question will shed light on: __High Quality Code Base__; __~Start-to-Finish Ownership__; __Uses Agile Methodologies__; __~Fast-Paced Environment__; __Continuous Delivery__

* Do senior engineers pair with junior engineers in the [onboarding] process?
> If they do pair, you can follow up with more questions about who pairs, how often it happens, and how it’s scheduled. Find out what exactly your first few weeks and months will look like. If they don’t pair, follow up by asking what other ways they collaborate together during the onboarding process? Your goal is to get a general idea for how much mentorship exists at the company, and whether the engineering team is built on a culture of helping one another. This question will shed light on: __Good for Junior Devs__; __Pair Programs__

* How often do engineers pair program, and on what occasions?
> Some companies exclusively program in pairs, and usually blog about that practice somewhere. However, there are many companies who are heavy on pairing, but you wouldn’t know unless you asked an engineer who works there. Make sure you ask! Find out what the pairing culture is like, how it gets scheduled, and whether it needs to be in-person. If it’s more of a “choose your own adventure” type of deal, find out who on the team pairs the most and ask if you can chat with him or her a bit. This question will shed light on: __Pair Programs__

* How did your team come to use your current framework(s)?
> Engineers can get defensive if you ask, “Why did you choose to use X?” Starting questions with “why” can be easily misconstrued as an attack. Since you’re almost certainly less familiar with their tech stack and business than they are, ask about how they came to choose the technologies they use. Did they consider other options? How did they evaluate tradeoffs between them? You’ll uncover who has the decision-making power when it comes to technologies, and where they stand when it comes to using the latest and greatest. This question will shed light on: __Open Source Contributor__; __~Cutting-Edge Technologies__

* What tools do you use for continuous integration?
> The best software development teams typically use tools like Jenkins, Travis, and Buildbot. If there is no continuous integration, you can at least gauge whether they’re familiar with the concept. If they aren’t, this is a likely bad sign. Having a continuous integration system means that the team probably believes in automation, which is usually a very good sign and can naturally lead into a conversation about continuous delivery. There are also some pretty straight forward follow up questions like, “What do you like and dislike about your CI system? How long do your CI runs take? When a CI reports a failure, how long does your team take to fix it? This question will shed light on: __Continuous Delivery__

* (For manager or lead roles.) What made you decide to interview external candidates like me for this role?
> You should find out why they’re not promoting a current team member instead. Did they at least try to? You may learn that promotions are rare at this company, or that there is a major gap in knowledge or expertise that you’ll be responsible for bridging. Will you be okay with being the go-to person for X at the company, and spend the majority of your time answering questions instead of driving products forward? Regardless of what you’re looking for, you should find out what shortcomings there may be before joining. This question will shed light on: __Promotes from Within__

* Did any of your senior engineers start out as junior engineers here?
> This will first and foremost tell you if you’re the first junior engineer they’ve ever hired. If so, make sure to follow up with other questions about what the expectations are, and who you can ask for help from. You’ll also find out how much career advancement there is at the company. It’s great to know that other junior devs have been able to level up here, and are now helping to bring up others. Ask if you can meet with and talk to this individual, even if they’re not someone you’ll be directly working with. They’ll have a perspective that lends you some of the most relevant information. This question will shed light on: __Promotes from Within__; __Good for Junior Devs__

* What percentage of managers within the company were promoted internally?
> You can always ask about the review cycle, or what the company’s policy is around promotions, but you risk coming off as someone who puts themselves ahead of the team. They’re evaluating what value you’ll add should you join the company, so it can be off-putting to hear that you’re already thinking about climbing the ladder. This question is also great because you want to know if they walk the walk. It’s one thing to say that your company is big on career advancement and promoting from within, but do they have the numbers to back it up? This question will shed light on: __Promotes from Within__

* What is the process like for trying out different projects, or working on different teams?
> A good answer will include examples of lots of people who have done just this. “Jess just moved from the product team to the infrastructure team. Steven started as an engineer and is now a PM.” Just because a company has an established policy around internal mobility, it doesn’t mean it’s being exercised. Find out how easy it is to try different things, and transition between projects/teams based on interest and fit. Will you be able to initiate lateral moves? How long will it take? Is the company supportive of these changes? This question will shed light on: __Internal Mobility__

* What kind of feedback can I get during my first few months, and who will I be getting it from?
> As a junior dev, you want to make sure that there is someone or something in place that will tell how you’re doing. It can be a devoted mentor, or another established system that exists at the company. Make sure you know what you need. If you’re counting on having a senior engineer help you ramp up, make sure that person exists and that you can talk to him or her before you join. Also find out if there are opportunities to pair, or if more senior engineers will be costed time to help you out. Otherwise, helping you might be viewed as a chore rather than a responsibility. This question will shed light on: __Good for Junior Devs__

* What is the most common reason engineers have left this company?
> Really strong answers to this question will be obvious. “We actually haven’t had any turnover in the last 18 months, or the last 5 people who have left went on to start their own companies.” Not-so-strong answers might be less obvious because interviewers rarely say outright that people leave because of their toxic work culture or slave-like hours. So you’ll have to detect the way your interviewer answers this questions in addition to what he or she actually says. Yes. You are interviewing your interviewer. This question will shed light on: __High Employee Retention__

* How often does the leadership team discuss turnover percentages?
> It’s uncommon for leadership teams to be fully transparent about their turnover rates, especially when the numbers aren’t great. However, you can glean whether it’s a topic that comes up during all-hands meetings, or whether these numbers are even being measured/tracked. Hiring managers may at least provide estimates from their specific team. At the very least, you’re inviting your interviewer to boast about their high retention rates where it may not have otherwise come up. This question will shed light on: __High Employee Retention__

* How does product management work?
> Follow up/clarifying questions include: How do you decide what products people work on? How much say do engineers have over what is built and how it's built? It’s important to understand what role engineers play at the company before joining, and whether you’ll be involved in ideation and conception, or just be delegated work. Especially the more senior you are, you’ll want to know who has decision-making power. This question will shed light on: __~Engineering-Driven__

* What is the process for finding, prioritizing, and fixing bugs?
> This is a great question to ask because it gets at what you really want to know (what is code quality like here?) without allowing your interviewer to give you a canned response. You’ll hopefully gain insights around what bug tracker they use, and how long it usually takes for them to fix bugs. You can even ask to see some of the open tickets since you’ll likely be responsible for them during your first few weeks. Now you can see how long they’ve really been open for, and what kind of bugs you’ll be encountering. This question will shed light on: __High Quality Code Base__; __~Engineering-Driven__; __~Fast-Paced Environment__

*  What is the median age that an issue will be open for?
> Instead of directly asking about their code quality, ask specific questions about their open issues. You’ll learn about code quality, technical debt, and how things are prioritized. If it feels right, you can ask that they walk you through some of the open issues right then and there, so you can see the types of issues you’ll be responsible for. Find out if engineers are spending their days frantically putting out fires, or if they’re able to devote all their time to developing new features and products. This question will shed light on: __High Quality Code Base__; __~Engineering-Driven__; __~Fast-Paced Environment__

# References
* [Interviewing for Front-End Engineers](https://frontendmasters.com/courses/interviewing-frontend/preparing-interview-questions)
* [Try asking these questions in your next interview](https://www.keyvalues.com/culture-queries)